Now that you know how ER diagrams and
relational schemas work, is going to show
us how to use his tool ERDPlus to
make your own diagrams and schemas.
The tool can be found at erdplus.com.
When you go to the web site, you'll
see a place where you can sign up for
a free account so that you can save and
revise your work.
Once you make an account you'll
see this home screen for
all the diagrams you've made are listed.
If you make a new diagram or
open up an old one the program brings you
to this work space for diagram service.
To orient you all the buttons
that allow you to add new parts
to the diagram are up here
at the top of the screen.
All of the menu items that let you name or
define parts of a diagram are over
here to the right side of the screen.
Once you have a diagram
that you are happy with,
remember this diagram button all
the way over here to the upper left.
It will let you export the diagram as
an image so that you can save it for
reference later.
I think you will find the tool
to be very intuitive.
I'll let Nenad take it from here.
>> Hello.
My name is Nenad Jukic.
I'm a Professor of Information Systems
at Quinlan School of Business,
at Loyola University Chicago.
I'm excited that you're
about to use ERD plus.
This is an excellent tool for
people who are trying to learn
about databases such as yourself.
I hope you enjoy the tool and
good luck with your course.
This video demonstrates how to use
ERDPlus to create a ER diagram.
Once you're logged into your account,
go to the diagram section.
Click on the new,
then choose ER diagram option.
Click on the name of the new ER
diagram to enter the drawing surface.
Let's create a small ER diagram.
We will click on the entity icon and
place the entity anywhere
in the drawing surface.
We will name this first entity location.
We will add two attributes to this entity,
location id and
location name.
We will declare location id to be unique.
Now let's add another entity.
We'll name this entity Project.
We'll add attributes.
Project ID and Project Name.
Project ID is unique.
We'll add one more entity.
We'll name this one Employee.
Employee has Employee ID which
is unique and employee name.
Now, we can create some relationships
between these entities.
To create the relationship,
we have to click on the connect icon
then click on one entity in this case
project and drag to another one.
In this case, location.
We just created a relationship
between project and location.
We will call this
relationship Takes Place.
Now we will declare cardinality
constraint for this relationship.
Each project takes place at exactly
one location, whereas each location
has at least one project taking
place at it but can have many.
Now let's create a relationship
between employee and project.
Again, we'll click on Connect, click
on EMPLOYEE and drag over to PROJECT.
We will name this relationship WORKSON.
Each employee works on at least
one project but can work on many.
Each project has at least one employee
working on it but can have many.
Works on is a many to many relationship,
many to many relationships
can have attributes.
To demonstrate, we will create an
attribute for this relationship WORKSON.
We will create an attribute,
and name it, number of hours.
Signifying that it keeps track
of number of hours that each
employee works on each project.
This conclude a small demo of how to
create an ER diagram using ERD plus.